---
icon: pen-to-square
date: 2024-08-02
category:
  - Android Makeover Plan
tag:
  - Android
  - nas
  - termux
---

# Android phone free root family nas

### Welcome to this issue of Android Transformation Plan. This issue brings you a home NAS that can be set up without complex configuration, allowing efficient file transfer between devices on the local network.

### Introduction

1. Home NAS is very convenient for transferring different files on various devices.
2. You can set up a home media library to watch videos and anime for free.
3. Automate video downloads.

### Preparation

1. Prepare an Android phone.
2. Prepare a computer.
3. Prepare the software Termux.

### Tutorial

### Install alist

Start Termux and use the command to install alist:

```bash
pkg install alist
```

After installation, use the command to start alist:

```bash
alist serve
```

After starting, use a browser to

visit

http://127.0.0.1:5244/. The default username is admin.

Enter the following command to view the current admin password:

```bash
alist admin
```

The admin password is encrypted the first time it is started, so it is better to change it to your own password for convenience:

```bash
alist admin set your_password
```

After configuration, use a browser to visit http://127.0.0.1:5244/ to log in. After a successful login, you can proceed with the configuration.

### Configure Aria2 Downloader

We need to use RimuruW's one-click installation and management script. Open a new interface in Termux and enter:

```bash
bash -c "$(curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RimuruW/Aria2-Termux/master/install.sh)"
```

Then choose to install and configure auto-start. Enter 7 to view the configuration and you will see the RPC key.

### Configure Aria2 Downloader for alist

Go to the main page of alist, click on Management, then go to Settings -> Others, and enter the RPC key in the Aria2 key field.

### Conclusion

This setup took me several days. I hope you all like it. Additionally, I wanted to install Xiaoya, but there is a network issue accessing Docker, and I couldn't connect. I will try to fix it in the coming days.

### Related Articles

[One-click installation and configuration of Aria2 for Android](https://blog.linioi.com/posts/aria2-for-termux/)

[One-click installation and management script for Aria2 on Android](https://github.com/RimuruW/Aria2-Termux)
